Add DeepSeek V4 (#45643)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/en/model_doc/deepseek_v4.md

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

⚠️ Note that this file is in Markdown but contains specific syntax for our doc-builder (similar to MDX) that may not be
rendered properly in your Markdown viewer.

-->
*This model was released on {release_date} and added to Hugging Face Transformers on 2026-04-28.*

# DeepSeek-V4

[DeepSeek-V4](https://huggingface.co/deepseek-ai) is the next-generation MoE language model from DeepSeek
([paper](https://huggingface.co/deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-V4-Flash/blob/main/DeepSeek_V4.pdf)). The architecture replaces
DeepSeek-V3's Multi-head Latent Attention (MLA) with a hybrid local + long-range design, swaps residual connections

> for Manifold-Constrained Hyper-Connections (mHC), and bootstraps the first few MoE layers with a static
> token-id → expert-id hash table.

Author: ```suggestion
for Manifold-Constrained Hyper-Connections (mHC), and changes the first few MoE layers with a static
token-id → expert-id hash table instead of fully dense MLPs. 

The keys changes are motivated by improved inference and training performances. Support for optimized kernels and the native FP4 format is planned for the next PR! 
```

This implementation covers `DeepSeek-V4-Flash`, `DeepSeek-V4-Pro`, and their `-Base` pretrained siblings. All four
share the same architecture; they differ only in width / depth / expert count and weights.

## Architecture (paper §2)

### Hybrid attention (§2.3)

Each decoder block is one of three attention types, dispatched by `config.layer_types[i]`:

* **Sliding-window full attention** (`"sliding_attention"`): only the local window of `sliding_window` tokens, no
  long-range branch. Matches V3's "Full Attention" style for the bootstrap layers.

> * **Compressed Sparse Attention** (`"compressed_sparse_attention"`, **CSA** — paper §2.3.1): a low-compression
>   pool (`compress_rate_csa`, default `m=4`) with overlapping windows, plus a **Lightning Indexer** (eqs. 13–17)
>   that scores queries against the pool and gathers the top `index_topk` blocks per query before they reach core
>   attention.
> * **Heavily Compressed Attention** (`"heavily_compressed_attention"`, **HCA** — paper §2.3.2): a high-compression
>   pool (`compress_rate_hca`, default `m'=128`) with non-overlapping windows. No indexer — every pooled entry
>   contributes to attention.

Author: ```suggestion
* **Compressed Sparse Attention** (`"compressed_sparse_attention"`, **CSA** — paper §2.3.1): a low-compression
  pool (`compress_rate_csa`, default `m=4`) with overlapping windows, plus a **Lightning Indexer** (eqs. 13–17)
  that scores queries against the pool and gathers the top `index_topk` blocks per query before they reach core
  attention, concatenated to a sliding window attention.
* **Heavily Compressed Attention** (`"heavily_compressed_attention"`, **HCA** — paper §2.3.2): a high-compression
  pool (`compress_rate_hca`, default `m'=128`) with non-overlapping windows. No indexer — every pooled entry
  contributes to attention, concatenated to a sliding window attention.
```
